Define hkdf-hmac-sha256.v2 MAC method for SAS verification (#1412)
matrix-org/matrix-spec: content/client-server-api/modules/end_to_end_encryption.md

    the users to select a method.
14. Alice and Bob compare the strings shown by their devices, and tell
    their devices if they match or not.
15. Assuming they match, Alice and Bob's devices each calculate Message
    Authentication Codes (MACs) for:
    * the keys that they wish to verify (usually their device ed25519 key and
      their master cross-signing key)

>     * the list of key IDs that they wish the other user to verify.

Author: Yes, the key list is to prevent people from adding or removing keys

> 15. Assuming they match, Alice and Bob's devices calculate the HMAC of
>     their own device keys and a comma-separated sorted list of the key
>     IDs that they wish the other user to verify, using SHA-256 as the
>     hash function. The HMAC calculation is defined [below](#mac-calculation).

Reviewer: I find it confusing the way we switch freely between "HMAC" and "MAC", and as far as I can tell we're talking about the same thing.

Also, I think we're calculating two separate MACs here? The current phrasing suggests that all the inputs are smashed together to calculate a single MAC.

I don't think we need to say we use SHA-256 here: that's part of the MAC calculation.

I also don't think we need to specify the format of the key IDs list; again that can go below.

```suggestion
15. Assuming they match, Alice and Bob's devices each calculate Message
    Authentication Codes (MACs) for:
    * their own device key [XXX: ed25519 key? curve25519 key? something else?], and:
    * the list of key IDs that they wish the other user to verify.
    The MAC calculation is defined [below](#mac-calculation).
```

Also s/HMAC/MAC/ in step 17.

Reviewer: stupid question, but why are the key IDs to be verified different from the device key?

Author: > stupid question, but why are the key IDs to be verified different from the device key?

The key IDs to be verified may include the cross-signing keys

{{% event event="m.key.verification.mac" %}}

###### MAC calculation

> For verification of each party's device keys, a MAC is calculated individually
> for each the keys that are to be verified. As well, a MAC is calculated for a
> list of the keys IDs. The MAC used is HMAC as defined in [RFC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the verification process, Message Authentication Codes (MACs) are calculated
for device keys and lists of key IDs.

The method used to calculate these MACs depends upon the value of the 
`message_authentication_code` property in the [`m.key.verification.accept`](#mkeyverificationaccept)
message. All current implementations should use the `hkdf-hmac-sha256.v2` method which is
defined as follows:

The MAC used is HMAC as defined in [RFC
```

2104](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2104), using SHA-256 as the hash function.
The HMAC key is calculated using HKDF as defined in [RFC
5869](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5869), using SHA-256 as the hash
function. The shared secret is supplied as the input keying material. No salt
is used, and in the info parameter is the concatenation of:

-   The string `MATRIX_KEY_VERIFICATION_MAC`.
-   The Matrix ID of the user whose key is being MAC-ed.
-   The Device ID of the device sending the MAC.
-   The Matrix ID of the other user.
-   The Device ID of the device receiving the MAC.
-   The `transaction_id` being used.
-   The Key ID of the key being MAC-ed, or the string `KEY_IDS` if the
    item being MAC-ed is the list of key IDs.

If the key list is being MACed, the list is sorted lexicographically and
comma-separated with no extra whitespace added. In this way, the recipient can
reconstruct the list from the names in the `mac` property of the

> `m.key.verification.mac` message and ensure that no keys were added or removed.

Reviewer: We say how to format a key list, but not a device key. Shouldn't we include how to format a device key?

{{% boxes/note %}}
The MAC method `hkdf-hmac-sha256` used an incorrect base64 encoding, due to a

> bug in the original implementation in libolm.  To remedy this,

Reviewer: The algorithm above doesn't seem to use base64 anywhere, so I'm a bit confused about how we could be using an incorrect encoding.

In other words: I think the description of the method is missing something about encoding. Presumably it's how we take the output of the HMAC and stuff it into a JSON text property?

Author: It's mentioned in the `m.key.verification.mac` definition. But I'll add a mention here too.

message. All current implementations should use the `hkdf-hmac-sha256.v2` method which is
defined as follows:

The MAC used is HMAC as defined in [RFC
5869](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5869), using SHA-256 as the hash
function. The shared secret is supplied as the input keying material. No salt
is used, and in the info parameter is the concatenation of:

-   The string `MATRIX_KEY_VERIFICATION_MAC`.
-   The Matrix ID of the user whose key is being MAC-ed.
-   The Device ID of the device sending the MAC.
-   The Matrix ID of the other user.
-   The Device ID of the device receiving the MAC.
-   The `transaction_id` being used.
-   The Key ID of the key being MAC-ed, or the string `KEY_IDS` if the
    item being MAC-ed is the list of key IDs.

If the key list is being MACed, the list is sorted lexicographically and
comma-separated with no extra whitespace added, with each key written in the
form `{algorithm}:{keyId}`. For example, the key list could look like:
`ed25519:Cross+Signing+Key,ed25519:DEVICEID`. In this way, the recipient can
reconstruct the list from the names in the `mac` property of the

> `m.key.verification.mac` message and ensure that no keys were added or removed.

Reviewer: we still don't seem to say how to feed a key into the MAC.

Do we use the 43(?) bytes of Base64-encoded public key? Or the 32 bytes of binary public key? Or other?
